The second
built in object we're going to look at is the string object, so I'm going to
define a constant message and set it to
a string. Now look at this. Message
. what's going on here? It looks like we have a bunch of
properties and methods. But earlier in the course, I told you that
string is a primitive type. Primitive types don't have
properties and methods. Only objects do. So why is it that
we see these properties and methods in this string? Well,
the reason for this is because in JavaScript we have two kinds of
strings. So this is what we call a string
primitive but we also have a string object.
So we have this constructor object string
and we can use that to create a new string object.
So we can pass a new string here, now because this is
a constructor function we need to apply the new operator
and now we have another string. Now let's take a look at
the type of each of these constants. So typeof
message, that's a string, the type of another
is an object. So the first constant is a string
primitive, the second one is an object. However,
when we use the dot notation with a string negative
JavaScript engine internally wraps this with a
string object, we don't see that, but we can work with this like
a string object. Now just like the math object, if you want to learn
about all these methods, it's best to look at the documentation
so simply search for JavaScript string.
Once again, on developer.mozilla.org
on this page you can
see all the properties and methods of the string object.
in this lecture, I'm going to show you a few of these methods, but I strongly
recommend you to look at the documentation once, just to have a quick look to see
what methods are there in case you need them. So back to our code
let's change this string to this is my first
message. Here we have the length
property which returns the number of characters in a string. This
is particularly useful in situations where we want to make sure the user
types at least a certain number of characters inside an input field.
Or maybe you want to put a limit. You don't want the user to type in more than 100
characters. Now if you want to access a character at a given
index, you can use square brackets, so,
message of 0 returns t, message of 1 returns
h. If you want to see this string has a special word,
you can use the includes method. So,
does this string have my
yes it does, but it doesn't have not.
We also have another method, starts with
so this string starts with this
but if you pass a capitol t here
we get false, so note that these searches are case sensitive.
We have a similar method, ends with so message.ends
with e, so
you can see the last character here is e. If you want to find the index
of a given character or a given string, inside the string, you can use
the index of method. So let's see what is the index
of my. So my starts at index
8. We can also replace part of a string
so replace, we want to replace first,
with second. Pretty easy. Note that this
returns a new string and does not modify the original one. So,
if you log the original one, we still have this is my first
message. We also have a couple of useful methods
toUpperCase, once again this returns a new string where
all characters are uppercase, similar to this method, we have two lower case
and another useful method is trim. So let me
add a couple of white spaces here, before
and after our message. Now, if we call
trim method, it gets rid of all the white
space before and after our message. And of course this method,
has variations, for example we have trimLeft,
which only removes the white space at the beginning of the string
of trim right, and so on. Another important concept you need to
know in JavaScript, is escape notation. So if you look at
the documentation for the string object, you can see in this table under
escape notation, you've got these special characters. So if you want
to use these you need to encode these using the escape notation.
For example, let's say you want to have a single quote
in your string. Now in this example, you have defined this string
with a single code. So if you want to have a single code inside of this string,
look, our Javascript
engine gets confused, because it thinks this second single code represents
the end of the string. To fix this, we need to prefix this
with a back slash, and now, this character is escaped
it's encoded, so when we log the message
you can see the single code is actually part of the string.
Another useful escape character is /n
which represents a new line. So back here if we add
a /n after my, this will
add a new line. So save the changes, let's look at message
on the console, you can see we have a new line here. Another very useful
method, is the split method. So message,
.split, with this we can split a string based
on a given character. So here I'm going to pass a white
space, and see what we get, we get an array of
5 items. And each item in this array is a
word in our message. Next, we're going to look at template literals.